feat: add user-scoped memory docs to deepagents deploy page (#3576)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/deepagents/deploy.mdx

Reviewer: These are not really parameters you configure, these are files that you provide, right? Except for model? I think I want to update this table a bit separately to split that out

Reviewer: @sydney-runkle can you let me know?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`deepagents deploy` fully rebuils and creates a new revision on every invocation. Use `deepagents dev` for local iteration.

```

| **`model`** | The LLM to use. Any provider works — see [supported models](/oss/deepagents/models#supported-models). |
| **`AGENTS.md`** | The system prompt, loaded at the start of each session. |
| **`skills`** | [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io/) for specialized knowledge and actions. Skills are synced into the sandbox so the agent can execute them at runtime. See [skills docs](/oss/deepagents/skills). |

> | **`user/`** | Per-user writable memory. If present, a single `AGENTS.md` is seeded per user (from `user/AGENTS.md` if provided, otherwise empty). Writable at runtime. Preloaded into the agent's context via the memory middleware. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **``user/``** | Per-user writable memory. If a `AGENTS.md` template is present in the `user` folder, the agents seeds the template per user (if the folder is empty the agents creates an empty `AGENTS.md`). Writable at runtime. Preloaded into the agent's context via the memory middleware. |
```

| **`mcp.json`** | MCP tools (HTTP/SSE). See [MCP docs](/oss/langchain/mcp). |

> | **`sandbox`** | Optional execution environment. See [sandbox providers](#sandbox-providers). |

Reviewer: Moving this here from gotchas. Gotchas at the end of a doc are probably going to be overlooked anyway, so better to mention it with sandbox info.
```suggestion
| **`sandbox`** | Optional execution environment. Thread-scoped sandboxes are provisioned per thread and will be re-created if the server restarts. Use `scope = "assistant"` if you need sandbox state that persists across threads. See [sandbox providers](#sandbox-providers). |
```

├── AGENTS.md
├── .env
├── mcp.json
├── skills/
│   ├── code-review/
│   │   └── SKILL.md
│   └── data-analysis/
│       └── SKILL.md
└── user/
    └── AGENTS.md
```

| File/directory | Purpose | Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `AGENTS.md` | [Memory](/oss/deepagents/memory) for the agent. Provides persistent context (project conventions, instructions, preferences) that is always loaded at startup. Read-only at runtime. | Yes |
| `skills/` | Directory of [skill](/oss/deepagents/skills) definitions. Each subdirectory should contain a `SKILL.md` file. Read-only at runtime. | No |

> | `user/` | Per-user writable memory. When present, a single `AGENTS.md` is seeded per user (from `user/AGENTS.md` if provided, otherwise empty). Writable at runtime — the agent can update this file as it learns about the user. Preloaded into the agent's context at the start of each session. | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `user/` | Per-user writable memory. If a `AGENTS.md` template is present in the `user` folder, the agents seeds the template per user (if the folder is empty the agents creates an empty `AGENTS.md`). Writable at runtime. Preloaded into the agent's context via the memory middleware. | No |
```

    The `name` field is the only required value in the entire configuration file. Everything else has defaults.
</Note>

Skills, user memories, MCP servers, and model dependencies are auto-detected from the project layout — you don't declare them in `deepagents.toml`:

- **Skills**: the bundler recursively scans `skills/`, skipping hidden dotfiles, and bundles the rest.

> - **User memory**: if `user/` exists, a single `AGENTS.md` is bundled as per-user memory (from `user/AGENTS.md` if present, otherwise empty). At runtime, each user gets their own copy (seeded on first access, never overwritten). The agent can read and write this file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User memory**: if `user/` exists, a single `AGENTS.md` is bundled as per-user memory (from `user/AGENTS.md` if present, otherwise empty). At runtime, each user gets their own copy (seeded on first access, never overwritten). The agent can read from and write to this file.
```

## Examples

A content writing agent with per-user preferences that the agent can update:

```toml deepagents.toml
[agent]
name = "deepagents-deploy-content-writer"

> model = "openai:gpt-4.1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model = "google_genai:gemini-3.1-pro-preview"
```

```

```txt
my-content-writer/
├── deepagents.toml
├── AGENTS.md
├── skills/
│   ├── blog-post/SKILL.md
│   └── social-media/SKILL.md
└── user/
    └── AGENTS.md          # writable — agent learns user preferences
```

A coding agent with a LangSmith sandbox for running code:

```toml deepagents.toml
[agent]
name = "deepagents-deploy-coding-agent"

> model = "anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model = "google_genai:gemini-3.1-pro-preview"
```

[sandbox]
provider = "langsmith"
template = "coding-agent"
image = "python:3.12"
```

## User Memory

User memory gives each user their own writable `AGENTS.md` that persists across conversations. To enable it, create a `user/` directory at your project root:

```txt
user/
└── AGENTS.md          # optional — seeded as empty if not provided
```

If the `user/` directory exists (even if empty), every user gets their own `AGENTS.md` at `/memories/user/AGENTS.md`. If you provide `user/AGENTS.md`, its contents are used as the initial template; otherwise an empty file is seeded.

At runtime, user memory is scoped per user via custom auth (`runtime.server_info.user.identity`). The first time a user interacts with the agent, their namespace is seeded with the template. Subsequent interactions reuse the existing file — the agent's edits persist, and redeployments never overwrite user data.

### How it works

1. **Bundle time** — the bundler reads `user/AGENTS.md` (or uses an empty string) and includes it in the seed payload.

> 2. **Runtime (first access)** — when a user\_id is seen for the first time, the `AGENTS.md` template is written to the store under that user's namespace. Existing entries are never overwritten.

Reviewer: (changing to active voice)
```suggestion
2. **Runtime (first access)** — when the agent sees a `user_id` for the first time, it writes the `AGENTS.md` template to the store under that user's namespace. Existing entries are never overwritten.
```

3. **Preloaded** — the user `AGENTS.md` is passed to the memory middleware, so the agent sees its contents in context at the start of every conversation.

> 4. **Writable** — the agent can update it via `edit_file`. The shared `AGENTS.md` and skills are read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Writable** — the agent can update it using the `edit_file` tool. The shared `AGENTS.md` file and skills folder are read-only.
```

### Permissions

| Path | Writable | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `/memories/AGENTS.md` | No | Shared (assistant-scoped) |
| `/memories/skills/**` | No | Shared (assistant-scoped) |
| `/memories/user/**` | Yes | Per-user (user\_id-scoped) |

### User identity

The `user_id` is resolved from custom auth via `runtime.user.identity`. The platform injects the authenticated user's identity automatically — no need to pass it through `configurable`. If no authenticated user is present, user memory features are gracefully skipped for that invocation.

## Gotchas

- **AGENTS.md and skills are read-only at runtime.** Edit source files and redeploy to update them. The per-user `AGENTS.md` at `/memories/user/AGENTS.md` is the exception — it is writable by the agent.
- **Full rebuild on deploy:** `deepagents deploy` creates a new revision on every invocation. Use `deepagents dev` for local iteration.
- **Sandbox lifecycle:** Thread-scoped sandboxes are provisioned per thread and will be re-created if the server restarts. Use `scope = "assistant"` if you need sandbox state that persists across threads.
- **MCP: HTTP/SSE only.** Stdio transports are rejected at bundle time.

> - **No custom Python tools.** Use MCP servers to expose custom tool logic.

Reviewer: Gotchas is a bit too colloquial. The info for 1 is in the above list. 2 I'll move above. 3 I've moved above.

```suggestion
## Limitations

- **MCP: HTTP/SSE only.** Stdio transports are rejected at bundle time.
- **No custom Python tools.** Use MCP servers to expose custom tool logic.
```

At runtime, user memory is scoped per user via custom auth (`runtime.server_info.user.identity`). The first time a user interacts with the agent, their namespace is seeded with the template. Subsequent interactions reuse the existing file — the agent's edits persist, and redeployments never overwrite user data.

### How it works

1. **Bundle time** — the bundler reads `user/AGENTS.md` (or uses an empty string) and includes it in the seed payload.
2. **Runtime (first access)** — when the agent sees a `user_id` for the first time, it writes the `AGENTS.md` template to the store under that user's namespace. Existing entries are never overwritten.
3. **Preloaded** — the user `AGENTS.md` is passed to the memory middleware, so the agent sees its contents in context at the start of every conversation.
4. **Writable** — the agent can update it using the `edit_file` tool. The shared `AGENTS.md` file and skills folder are read-only.

### Permissions

| Path | Writable | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `/memories/AGENTS.md` | No | Shared (assistant-scoped) |
| `/memories/skills/**` | No | Shared (assistant-scoped) |

> | `/memories/user/**` | Yes | Per-user (user\_id-scoped) |

Reviewer 2: Is the little slash `\` intentional?

Reviewer: probably needed for markdown to escape it, so it's not interpreting it as cursive. Should be this though
```suggestion
| `/memories/user/**` | Yes | Per-user (`user_id`-scoped) |
```
